  
Press release 
 
 Page 1/1  
 
 Communications 
 
P.O. Box, CH-8022 Zurich 
Telephone +41 44 631 31 11 
communications@snb.ch 
 
Zurich, 15 January 2015 
Swiss National Bank discontinues minimum exchange rate and 
lowers interest rate to –0.75% 
Target range moved further into negative territory 
The Swiss National Bank (SNB) is discontinuing the minimum exchange rate of CHF 1.20 
per euro. At the same time, it is lowering the interest rate on sight deposit account balances 
that exceed a given exemption threshold by 0.5 percentage points, to −0.75%. It is moving the 
target range for the three-month Libor further into negative territory, to between –1.25% and 
−0.25%, from the current range of between −0.75% and 0.25%.  
The minimum exchange rate was introduced during a period of exceptional overvaluation of 
the Swiss franc and an extremely high level of uncertainty on the financial markets. This 
exceptional and temporary measure protected the Swiss economy from serious harm. While 
the Swiss franc is still high, the overvaluation has decreased as a whole since the introduction 
of the minimum exchange rate. The economy was able to take advantage of this phase to 
adjust to the new situation. 
Recently, divergences between the monetary policies of the major currency areas have 
increased significantly – a trend that is likely to become even more pronounced. The euro has 
depreciated considerably against the US dollar and this, in turn, has caused the Swiss franc to 
weaken against the US dollar. In these circumstances, the SNB concluded that enforcing and 
maintaining the minimum exchange rate for the Swiss franc against the euro is no longer 
justified.  
The SNB is lowering interest rates significantly to ensure that the discontinuation of the 
minimum exchange rate does not lead to an inappropriate tightening of monetary conditions. 
The SNB will continue to take account of the exchange rate situation in formulating its 
monetary policy in future. If necessary, it will therefore remain active in the foreign exchange 
market to influence monetary conditions. 
 